Good morning.
My name is Francisco, and this is Shane.
May I ask your name?
Ian.
It’s nice to meet you, Ian.
We’re discussing a question
that many people ask about God.
God?
I don’t think I believe in God.
You’re certainly not alone
in questioning whether God exists.
But may I ask,
Have you always  felt that way?
Well, I used to believe in God.
I was raised that way,
but then everything fell apart.
My mother got sick, and my father left us.
It was just me and my brother
trying to take care of Mom until she died.
I’m very sorry to hear that, Ian.
Me too.
I can relate in some ways.
My family went through a similar situation.
I just don’t understand
why God would do that to us.
We’re good people.
We went to church every Sunday.
We never hurt anyone.
Let me assure you, you’re certainly
not the first to feel that way.
Many people have struggled
to understand why bad things happen.
The Bible’s answer may surprise you.
In fact, that’s one
of the reasons we’re here today.
The question
we’ve been discussing from the Bible is,
How do we know that our suffering
is not punishment from God?
Really?
Yes.
Please notice what we read here
at James 1:13:
“When under trial, let no one say:
‘I am being tried by God.’
“For with evil things God cannot be tried,
nor does he himself try anyone.”
Notice the first part of this verse.
When we face trials,
we may feel like we’re being tried,
or tested, by God.
But is that really the case?
Notice the second part of the verse.
Would you agree that if God exists,
he cannot be tested by evil?
Of course.
That would be impossible!
We agree.
And what comforting assurance
do we find in the end of the verse?
That God does not try us with evil?
Exactly!
Of course, a logical question is,
If God isn’t the cause
of our suffering, who or what is?
Next time we’re here, let’s discuss
the principal reason why we suffer.
OK.